{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red251\green0\blue7;\red251\green0\blue7;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red25\green60\blue255;\red239\green239\blue237;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c12195\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c12594\c35385\c100000;\cssrgb\c95026\c95025\c94433;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14580\viewh15640\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Intro to Python: (\cf2 pythonBasics/introToPython.py\cf0 )\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 This file gives a short intro to some basic Python syntax and concepts.
\fs36 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Intro to Matrices (\cf2 /matrixIntro\cf0 )\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Matrix Visualization (\cf3 matrixIntro/matrixVisualization.py\cf4 )\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 This file shows a basic way to visualize matrices in Python.\
\

\fs32 Basic Matrix Concepts (\cf3 matrixIntro/basicConcepts.py\cf0 )\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
A matrix is an array of numbers organized into rows and columns.\
\
A = [2, 7, -4]\
       [6, 3, 5]\
\
2 rows, 3 columns, 2x3, RxC\

\f1\b Down
\f0\b0  and then 
\f1\b across
\f0\b0 \
\
Indexing into a matrix is similar to indexing into arrays in programming.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Element A\sub 23\nosupersub  would be 5. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Element A\sub 12\nosupersub  would be 7.\
\
Element A\sub 21 \nosupersub would be 6.\
\
The order of a matrix is simply the rows and columns. The above matrix would be a 2x3 matrix. \
\

\f1\b Square matrices 
\f0\b0 are matrices where the number rows and columns are the same . \
\
C = [1, 2,]\
       [3, 4]\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Basic Matrix Operations (\cf2 /basicMatrixOperations\cf0 )\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 This folder gives some background on matrix addition, subtraction, and scalar multiplication.
\fs36 \
\
For loops in Python: (\cf2 pythonBasics/forLoopsInPython.py\cf0 )\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Adding and subtracting (\cf2 basicMatrixOperations/additionAndSubtraction.py\cf0 )\ul \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Simply add or subtract the elements in the same positions. \
\
A = [2, 7, -4]\
       [6, 3, 5]\
\
B = [3, 1, 5]\
       [-7, 4, 2]\
\
A + B = [2+3, 7+1, -4+5]\
	  [6+(-7), 3+4, 5+2]\
\
	= [5, 8, 1]\
	   [-1, 7, 7]\
\
OR \
\
A - B = [2-3, 7-1, -4-5]\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	  [6-(-7), 3-4, 5-2]\
\
	= [-1, 6, -9]\
	   [13, -1, 3]\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
You cannot add or subtract matrices with different dimensions. \
\

\fs32 Scalar Multiplication (\cf2 scalarMultiplication.py\cf0 )\ul \

\fs28 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 Scalar multiplication of matrices involves multiplying every entry in a matrix by a single real number, called a scalar, which changes the magnitude of each element without altering the matrix's dimensions.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
A = [5, -2]\
       [7, 3]\
\
B = [-4, 6]\
       [-2, 9]\
\
Lets find 3A and 4B. \
\
For 3A, we just multiply every element in the matrix by 3, like this:\
\
3A = [15, -6]\
         [21, 9]\
\
For 4B, we multiply every element in the matrix by 4, like this:\
\
4B = [-16, 24]\
       [-8, 36]\
\
We also need to be familiar with operations associated with matricies relating to scalar multiplcation\
\
What if we want to find the value of 5A-6B?\
\
Multiply matrix A by 5, and multiply matrix B by 6:\
\
   5*[5, -2]  -  6*[-4, 6]\
       [7, 3]         [-2, 9]\
\
\ul Note: \ulnone We could actually multiple matrix B by -6, but that would change the minus sign to a plus sign, when doing the matrix operation. \
This comes down to preference\
\
Let\'92s multiple everything by -6 for the sake of this example!\
\
\
       [25, -10]  +    [24, -6]\
       [35, 15]         [12, -54]\
\
Now we just need to add the two matrices\
\
5A-6B = [49, -46]\
	    [47, -39]\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf0 Advanced Matrix Operations (\cf2 /advancedMatrixOperations\cf0 )\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs34 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf0 Multiplying Matrices (\cf2 /advancedMatrixOperations/multiplyingMatrices.py\cf4 )\
\

\fs24 \cf0 A = [2, 5, 6]\
B = [3,\
       4,\
       -5]\
\
In regular math, the order of a multiplication operation does not matter (3x5=15 and 5x3=5).\
In matrix math, order does matter (AB \uc0\u8800  BA).\
\
Before we begin multiplying, we must find the order of each matrix.\
\
RxC\
\
Matrix A has 1 row and 3 columns. It is a 1x3 matrix.\
Matrix B has 3 rows and 1 column. It is a 3x1 matrix. \
\
In order to multiply these two matrices, the columns in the first matrix have to equal the number of rows in the second matrix. \
The order of matrix AB will be the product of the rows in the first matrix and the columns in the second matrix. \
\
AB = 1x3 * 3x1 \
\
BA = 3x1 * 1x3\
\
Both matrices are compatible for multiplication. \
\
The order of AB will be a 1x1 matrix. \
The order of BA will be a 3x3 matrix. \
\
Let's start by doing A*B\
\
You take all the elements in the first row of matrix A and multiply them by all the elements in the first column of matrix B. \
\
A = [2, 5, 6]\
B = [3,\
       4,\
       -5]\
\
\
AB = [2(3) + 5(4) + 5(-5)] = [6 + 20 + -30] =\cf5  [-4]\

\fs32 \cf2 \

\fs24 \cf0 Now, let's do B*A. \
\
Remember, this will be a 3x3 matrix. Row by column. \
\
BA =  [3(2), 3(5), 3(6),\
	4(2), 4(5), 4(6),\
	 -5(2), -5(5), -5(6)]\
\
     =   [6, 15, 18]\
	8, 20, 24]\
	-10, -25, -30]\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf4 Solving Systems and Inverses (\cf2 /solvingSystemsAndInverses\cf4 )\

\fs32 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Using matrices to solve linear systems (\cf2 solvingSystemsAndInverses/solveLinearSystem.py\cf4 )\
\
Matrix inverses \outl0\strokewidth0 (\cf2 solvingSystemsAndInverses/matrixInverse.py\cf4 )\outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Determinants \outl0\strokewidth0 (\cf2 solvingSystemsAndInverses/calculateDeterminant.py\cf4 )
\fs24 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs36 \cf4 Applications and Computation (/applicationsAndComputation)\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \

\fs34 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Applications (\cf2 applicationsAndComputation/matrixApplications.py\cf4 )\
\
Computational Tools - Python/etc. (\cf2 applicationsAndComputation/largeMatrixComputation.py\cf4 )
\fs34 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs20 \cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec6 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}